---
author: alex
date: 2010-01-11 19:34:47 -0700
layout: post
slug: launching-explainthis-org-i-helped-develop-the-code
status: publish
title: Launching ExplainThis.org - I helped develop the code
wordpress_id: '17'
---

## ExplainThis.org

Almost anywhere today you can hear many knowledgeable people talk about
the state of newspapers. For many of them a storm is coming, for others
the storm is already here. Everyday stories come out about the demise of
the newspaper model. On top of that their is a large, and growing
conversation about how to fix the newspaper model. Technology, can, and
will be apart of the solution. Its not going to *be* the solution, but
it is going to enable the journalists of the future to be better
journalists.

I happen to be a person good at technology. From the very beginning of
this conversation I have wondered if I can help some how, I wished I
could do something. After reading a [lively
discussion](http://http://jayrosen.tumblr.com/post/281058818/this-is-a-mock-up-for-a-news-site-that-i-think)
on Jay Rosen's website, about an idea of his, I offered to help build a
demo, or beta. My wish came true.

The site is here at [explainthis.org](http://explainthis.org). Come,
contribute, vote. You can see [Jay's announcement tweet
here](http://twitter.com/jayrosen_nyu/statuses/7639473941).

Will this fix the industry? If it helps at all, it won't be alone. I
didn't decide to get involved because I through it would fix the whole
problem. There seemed to be more talk about fixing, then actually trying
to fix. I wanted to try something, anything. This seems like a great
place to start.

## The Code

In a testament to the open source community, we got this whole thing out
in a little under a month. Building on great community projects, like
[Drupal](http://www.drupal.org), we were able to duct tape it all
together, and create a working prototype. This is the beginning, and we
need more help, if this is going to take off we need to bloom a hundred
communities. I have setup a [github
repo](http://github.com/voidfiles/explainthis), come fork it, and we
will all start pushing and pulling our way to better software.

The site is directly influenced by
[stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com). The community there is doing
a great job at connected knowledgeable users, to users with questions,
and reducing the amount of repeat questions.
[Stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com) creates canonical
conversations about specific questions, in the programming community.
This model seems like it might translate well to the investigative
journalism world. Almost the same week Jay put fourth his idea, a group
of [drupal hackers created a](http://drupal.org)[stackoverflow clone in
drupal](http://drupal.org/project/arrayshift). We jumped on board, and
that is what powers explainthis.org, right now.

The project is in its early stages. I needed to create a custom theme
because the one the project owners used is a straight copy of the stack
overflow site, and they don't want to infringe on stackoverflow's
design. But there is already a group of people trying to get the
software up and working.
