---
author: alex
date: 2010-11-15 17:35:55 -0700
layout: post
slug: why-instapaper-for-video-as-an-ios-app-is-a-long-ways-away
status: publish
title: Why instapaper for video as an iOS app is a long ways away
wordpress_id: '101'
---

From the first day I created Wacchen people have
wanted me to create an app for the iPhone. They wanted something that
functions like the instapaper app. I knew from day one that while the
idea was the same, there was no way a video for instapaper app could
survive in the app store. Now, Wacchen is surrounded by competitors, and
even an attempt at an App. I think my time would be better spent else
where, so I am seriously changing how Wacchen will work, but I also
wanted explain why instapaper for video won't be in the app store any
time soon.

## Update:

I shut Wacchen down for a while, but it's back. I have in a state now
that it can run in a mostly unattended fashion

[Instapaper](http://instapaper.com) as a tool to extend my ability to
consume content has been invaluable. Together with things like Google
Reader, I feel that I have the beginnings of the tools that I will need
to staunch the flow of information. I have never been a worrywart about
the amount of information flowing around, but I do know that we need to
figure out how to organize a torrent of information into neat little
boxes.

For years now, there has been no equivalent for video. There has been a
quite, but persistent cry for something like this for years now. You can
find it on
[twitter](http://twitter.com/christmasgorill/status/3100379747192832),
[blogs](http://angryrobot.ca/2010/05/03/i-need-instapaper-for-video),
and Instapaper creator, Marco Arments, own
[forums](http://www.marco.org/forum/viewtopic.php?id=1766).

After a fateful, ultimately unsuccessful, interview I built it, quickly.
Wacchen was born from a long standing idea stirring in my brain, and the
commitment to demonstrate that Rails was not that different from things
like Django, infantile, for sure.

Wacchen is like instapaper for video. Arment, the creator of instapaper,
has put together an app that's quite wonderful, and has no doubt spent
hours on Instapaper. The amount would make my effort look like a
pittance. Even though I know there are probably a million and 1 things
that make Instapaper better then Wacchen, and the idea that there is
only one major difference is crazy. There is a small difference in how
the content is treated. Instapaper has the ability to scrape all the
content on the page that you have access too. If you can see it in a
browser you can send it to instapaper. If you take apart the bookmarklet
you can see how this works, also you can see what kind of data is
getting sent back to Instapaper by investigating the HTTP request it
makes.

This works for a large range of content, and has made it easier for many
people to keep a full copy of all the things they want to read in one
place. Then the iPhone app came along, now you could take your full copy
and put it on your phone. Now anywhere you had your phone you could read
your stuff.

Wacchen works on the same basic principal, you see it in a browser you
bookmark it, but the difference is that instead of downloading the
video, Wacchen merely figures out how to embed it for you in a central
place. Wacchen does not download the videos, but stores references to
them.

After I built the site though, I realized what people really wanted was
an iPhone app. I knew that would be the best next thing to do, but there
was a problem, my app would never stay in the app store for long.

The problem is that video providers are very twitchy about you taking
videos offline. It doesn't matter that you can watch videos in your
browser, you are not allowed to take them to go, and are strongly
thwarted from trying. It's clearly not okay, as blah blah, found out
after they got revoked from the the app store.I say okay, and not
illegal, because being barred from the app store isn't always a legal
question. Even if I wanted to fight the legal battle I would at bare
minimum have to fight it without my app being in the app store.

That is where we are, an app that downloads full-text of articles is
okay, but an app that downloads full videos is not okay. Mayby someday
someone will be able to build full partnership deals, or something but
that doesn't seem likely to happen any time soon.
