---
author: alex
date: 2010-12-03 22:30:25 -0700
layout: post
slug: one-facet-of-idea-generation-capture-and-organization
status: publish
title: One facet of idea generation, capture, and organization
wordpress_id: '102'
---

Idea generation, capture, and organization is a major part of any
business. As you might assume every business does this differently as
well. I have had a couple different experiences with idea generation.

Sometimes you just start kicking around an idea with friends. It's fast,
its mostly talk. In the end though you will be the one making this
thing. There is no need to communicated anything, with anyone. It can be
fun, but it's hard to get an idea on it's legs, and you are prone to not
getting any feedback. Going down a long tunnel before you see daylight
can happen quickly, and you end up with a lot of work, and nothing to
show for it.

Yahoo, and possibly other large companies, have another method of idea
capture. Ideas were okay, but only if they fit into your box. Ideas
across the full spectrum were for someone else. It might sound like the
responsibility for cross-product communication was somewhere up the
chain, but in reality I had no idea where my projects came from. I had
this murky understanding that they were usually reactions to market, and
that we needed to get it out fast. To be fair, because of that
murkiness, you supposedly could do almost anything you wanted. It comes
with a catch though you need to convince some one with power to back
your idea. We programmers had ideas, and would talk about it often, but
there was no capture, because no one was listening. The most recent way
has been at a startup. One goal of mine is to try, and understand why
companies change as they grow. I really want to understand if it's
possibly to combine the power of startups with large companies. The idea
generation thing has been an interesting part of my new job. At first, I
just listened. I wanted to make sure I understood how things worked,
what was the flow. After awhile I realized that idea generation was
organic, ideas would bubble up any time. Sometimes they would get posted
to IRC, or just mentioned out loud. Some ideas would be said out loud,
and receive no response, others would receive, an oh yea we should do
that.

This part of the equation isn't all that different from the lone wolf
experience, except for one crucial part. You have a room filled with
people who can make things. Even though these ideas are just bubbling
up, and flowing into the world, that doesn't mean they aren't getting
captured. It just means we are all marinating. Sometimes idea come
fourth, are talked about and executed in a matter of hours, or days.
Sometimes it can take weeks to get back around because of other pressing
matters. It works though.

Here though is the sticking point. I am not sure how well this will
scale, I don't think it can. I could be wrong, it would be wrong to bet
the farm on this assumption. I think the point here is that there should
be like and idea log. The log metaphorical, but can be instituted as
software, you can use a bug tracker, you could use a piece of paper, or
a white board. The biggest idea I think is to expose everyone to all the
ideas, eventually you will need a curator, but not to limit what can be
seen but to group.

Another caveat is communication, in the first two situations it's not
really important. In big companies it's important to document what you
have done, but communication is structural thing, not a p2p thing. In
the latter, communication is incredibly important, not just
documentation but making sure everyone is informed, that way everyone
can give feedback too.
