---
author: alex
date: 2010-05-13 18:27:19 -0700
layout: post
slug: curated-streams-will-beat-popularity-streams-any-day-of-the-week
status: publish
title: Curated Streams Will Beat Popularity Streams Any Day Of The Week
wordpress_id: '53'
---

I can almost always find something useful in a most popular list. For a
long time I thought, if the list is properly regulated it can provide
all that you would ever need when searching for content, but as time
passed I found more evidence to the contrary. Now curated streams of
content are turning out to be way better at giving me content I actually
want to consume. Popularity lists, can be a great tool, and for a long
time I thought it was a panacea of getting the best content. If a list
is properly regulated, and is a minority list. Such as top 50 indie
bands, versus top 50 all around artists, it was useful to me. I found
lots of great stuff using most popular lists. But, now that I have been
building a system for curation, I am slowly realizing, that they aren't
the best system, curated streams of content are the best.

Take music as an example. I like popular music, music off-the-beaten
path is nice to. It would be a bad idea for me to say that any label
placed on music, external, or otherwise, is what make the music
interesting to me. What matters more is if I like it or not, I for one,
can't keep up with labels, but my taste in music will always be able to
tell me if I like something or not. This is why top 50 lists worked for
such a long time, labels didn't really matter, I just new that I would
like some of it. I seem to have an ear that likes popular music. I like
that it changes, I like the narrative of pop music. People who know me
think I am kind of a sap, for liking popular music, that's fine. But
this has led to the fact that popularity lists have always been a good
starting point for me when it comes to finding new music that I like.

While I can get by with the billboard top 50, it doesn't churn enough
for my liking, so as music blogs rose, I relished sites like
[hypem.com](http://hypem.com) that tracked the most popular music on
blogs. I have been using the hype machine for years now. Recently
something grabbed my attention, whenever you "love" a song they show you
other users who "loved" that song. They have had this feature for awhile
now that allows you to follow other users, but for whatever reason I
didn't really use it. Until they showed me inline the other users who
loved songs. I started following users who had loved the same songs that
I did. Now, even with a very small network, like 5 or less, I am really
enjoying the stream of songs. On average, I like more songs from the
stream then I do from the most popular list.

I still listen to the popular list, but I think it only works well
because the hype machine limits the blogs it follows to a subsection of
the total blogs.

Now, as I look to the future, and see video coming down the pike. We
need services to help us slice, and dice video content. One such site is
[nowmov](http://nowmov.com), they show you the most popular videos on
youtube. It just goes from one to the next, like TV, wink wink. Its
good, and there are probably many people who are looking for this type
of experience, one like TV. But, this is just a popularity list, they
will probably build in some better algorithms, and it might get much
better, like pandora for video. But, I am going to bet that curated
streams will beat [nowmov](http://nowmov.com), on a personal level, it's
not a zerosum game.
