---
author: alex
date: 2010-04-28 07:41:12 -0700
layout: post
slug: rails-two-weeks-in-coming-from-django
status: publish
title: Rails; Two Weeks In; Coming from Django
wordpress_id: '46'
---

These aren't new. I think there is a lot of mutual respect between
Rails, and Django. On more then one occasion I have seen Jacob Moss
[give kudos](http://jacobian.org/writing/thank-you-rails/) to some part
of rails.

I never thought there was much of a difference. I thought ah, cool, yea
if I ever had to I could pickup rails. While, its not been as easy as
picking it up, it has been easier then going from QBasic, to assembly.

In a funny turn of events, I feel as if I have made a huge clerical
error in not at the bare minimum, jumping in. It left a hole as big as a
jumbo jet open in my iron curtain of knowledge. So, to correct that, I
have decided to go for a swim. I am going to post my code up on github
soon, and the site will be up soon too. I am not sure what I want to
call it yet.

Basically the idea, is that I want an instavideo, see
[instapaper](http://www.instapaper.com/) for more context. I think
instapaper is just a kick ass way to consume longer reads, and it gives
me warm fuzzies inside. When I talk to other people who like instapaper,
you can see there eyes light up. Using instapaper in some sense means
you are interested in reading, and not just casually. This helps to
buffer a larger point about people on the internet still do want to
read, but I want to talk about video. Video, right now is as frantic as
blogs were a couple years ago.

I feel the video world is ready to start seeing well crafted channels of
video coming out over the web. There is [boxee](http://www.boxee.tv),
kicking the pants off all its competitors, when its not drinking to much
and coming into work late. The iPad is has all the big players, rushing
html5 video out the door. So, video, is getting ready to bust out, and I
need a complement to instapaper.

So, I am building in ruby, its a twofer. Build something I want, and
learn something new in the process.

A friend of mine once complained on twitter about how bad the Django
Documentation was. I thought he was crazy, but now the script is flipped
I wonder if its just a cultural thing. I am going to find out, but right
now, the documentation sucks. I am finding hard to dig deep into how the
magic works.

That's another thing, I feel in some sense that Rails, just has a ton of
magic baked in. I am assuming that a lot of this magic is due to the
power or ruby to be so expressive. I think I just am waiting for that
paradigm shift moment, where all of a sudden the light bulb goes off.

Other then that, I am liking the migrations out of the box. Django
didn't have a strong sense for this, things like
[south](http://south.aeracode.org) came along, but I did what all the
other developers did and just wrote my own SQL migrations. When you sort
of force the user to think about migrations, then migrations make more
sense. Then the notion of rollback becomes as simple as issuing a
command. I really like this idea. I hope I don't find away around
migrations, and make sure I flex that muscel as much as possible.

Especially when you start looking at continuous deployment, which is
something I am looking at, making sure you can roll everything back
becomes super important.
