---
author: alex
date: 2010-08-03 18:26:12 -0700
layout: post
slug: how-i-as-low-ranking-employee-am-going-to-change-yahoo
status: publish
title: How I, as low-ranking employee, am going to change Yahoo
wordpress_id: '78'
hide: true
---

I don't know about you but at some point in time I had to start asking
my self why am I working at Yahoo! I am still to this day filled with
joy that I ever had the chance to work here in the first place. When I
was 12 I can remember thinking how cool it would be to work in Silicon
Valley, never once did I think that I could actually do it, and now on
regular basis I drive past the Yahoo! sign on my way to work. That's
cool, and will always be cool.

Past the warm fuzzys I get working at Yahoo, there are some fun
technical challenges. Getting to work on websites of this scale will
always be something that is challenging. Learning how to get work done
in a beaurocracy is also a good thing.P ast that, why do I work at
Yahoo, over say a startup. I have looked around, investigated working at
startup, I have even been offered positions in startups, but turned them
down. The biggest reason has been job security. I have two kids, and a
wife, and Yahoo! is seemingly enough secure, but that's not enough for
me.

When you think of the reasons why people leave Yahoo!, which is complete
speculation on my part, it might be place, you may not like Sunnyvale,
you may live far away. It might be pay, but more then likely it's not.
Maybe that chance to strike it big, possibly if you are a very early
employee. But, I think it rest's mostly on one thing, the work. The work
of startups seems to be more fun, at least from my outside looking in
perspective.

Startups scan the horizon of innovation, pick a problem and attack it.
They find really smart people, give them a salary, and hope that those
smart people can solve the problem. The other part of there innovation,
is there ability to turn on a dime, if there main product fails, they
start over on something else.

So these two things innovation, and agility are something that I
personally admire about startups, but I am here at Yahoo.

## What can I do about it.

Well, we need to take what is awesome about the startup, and put it in
Yahoo, and this change needs to start with us, the employee's of Yahoo.
I can't do it alone. And here is how I think we can start.

Well, hold on, I am low in the chain here, for technical Yahoo's there
is a 1 to 8 scale, 8 being the "best", and I am a 2. So, I can speak for
no one but my self. Okay on with it.

This is a suggestion, it is a couple ideas I think we can use as
individuals to get better at what we do.

One last note, I say hacker, but I don't mean it has to be code hacking,
just hack at whatever you want. Get better at hacking, food, or movies,
or whatever. The important part is that you don't let the corp dictate
your innovation, do it on your own time.

## Innovation

What that hell is innovation? Is it something you can plan for, is it
something you can work towards? I thin, yes, you can, but it can't be a
line, or a box. You need to sneak up on it, kind fool it with
misdirection, play hard to get. There isn't a straight line from here to
innovation. My bet is that if you can think of one idea right now that
is innovative, it's not, no matter how great it is, because if it's
innovative today, and you haven't built it, if so you are getting passed
by. My theory is that you don't aim at innovation, but that you fall
backwards into it. The only way you can do that is if you build a place
where it can happen. I think this "place" starts with "hacking".

## 4 ideas, 4 people, 4 steps - How we can be the innovation at Yahoo

I have 4 ideas I want to share, all are related to "hacking",
practically, and metaphorically if you will. These are ideas that I
think have been guiding people for a long time, they aren't incredibly
new, but now they just so happen to have famous people talking about
them.

## The Medium is the message

If you have known me for any length of time, then I have brought this
dude up,
[Marshall\_McLuhan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_McLuhan). This
dude blew my mind with one sentence, "the medium is the message".

The story on yesterdays front page doesn't matter, its that the
frontpage of the news paper is important that matters, its matters that
we have this thing called a news paper that matters.

Think about how big The Beatles are, think about how they got here. Now
take away from our world newspaper, TV, radio, records, and telegraph
for good measure. Where would the The Beatles be now. My guess, a really
great band in Liverpool.

How the hell does this relate to us, what it tells us all is that the
medium matters. If we aren't breathing, and sleeping our medium then we
won't be able to understand what the medium means. I don't think we are
in short supply here, but the next time you think you are wasting time
watching a youtube video, or using facebook, start asking your self why,
what about this experience is awesome, why do I sit here? This also
means that we need to start being the master of our domains, which means
hacking. We need to take these mediums that we use, and that we are
expected to build and use them, we don't have to use them like we are
told either, that isn't the point, but the point is can you hack this.
Being a hacker is more then just writing code. We need to be hackers.

*Step 1: We need to be hackers*

## Charlene Li

[Charlene Li](http://www.charleneli.com/) wrote [Open Leadership: How
Social Technology Can Transform the Way You
Lead](http://www.charleneli.com/open-leadership/buy-books/), along with
another book. Charlene Li, is talking right now about how to use open,
and not just transparency open, like we get to know how the company is
doing open, or our CEO talks to us on a platform at all hands, but open
like letting people use social media with out restrictions, letting the
wave wild inside companies, and how that can help companies get better.
But that isn't the idea I want to talk about here, she has this great
example of a pyramid.

Her idea is that we all start down at the bottom as a consumer, and work
our way up to producer, but you don't just leap from consumer to
producer, you slowly work your way up the pyramid. Maybe you start by
curating letting other people know about awesome stuff, having a link
blog it doesn't matter. Then you start be come a meta contributor,
making comments on other peoples posts, and building relationships with
other people on there way up the pyramid, then finally you get to
producer.

The pyramid matters, because producers are the ones who drive
innovation. The people out there in the wild, driving the conversation
are the ones who are innovating. We need to be those people.

*Step 2: We need to be producers*

step 2 on our way to innovation domination is to become producers. Being
a "producer" in our field is being a hacker, someone who plays with
technology, someone who can help sort through all the different options
in a knowledgeable way. They get there because they are hacking, and
sharing there ideas about hacking. This gives them credibility, and a
platform.

## Clay Shirky

[Clay Shirky](http://www.shirky.com/), is quite possibly my favorite
thinker about the internet. This dude has written more papers that
helped me to understand social media, then anyone else. To really
understand why tags are awesome read his paper [Ontology is Overrated:
Categories, Links, and
Tags](http://www.shirky.com/writings/ontology_overrated.html)

In his latest book [Cognitive
Surplus](http://www.amazon.com/Cognitive-Surplus-Creativity-Generosity-Connected/dp/1594202532)
he investigates such things as LOL Cats, and this thing called
[Ushahidi](http://www.ushahidi.com/), you can watch his [TED
video](http://www.ted.com/talks/clay_shirky_how_cognitive_surplus_will_change_the_world.html),
and it will be more awesome then what I am going to say but, here is the
baseline. We watch 200 billion hours a year of television, which boils
down to 20 hours of televisions per person in america. It as much as a
part-time job. The amount of time we watch TV has grown steadily since
TV was invented, until now. Young people are the first generation to
watch less TV then there parents. Question \#1, what are they doing with
their time. Well they are making LOL Cats of course, but really they are
using Facebook, they are watching youtube videos, they are building this
thing called Ushahidi, which is a crowd-sourced online collector for
reports of violence, that originated in Kenya during the election unrest
a couple years ago.

What are you doing during that time. I have tried to tame this down,
because I don't want people to feel like harassing them, but really
think about what you are doing during this time. I have two kids at
home, and after I cook a meal for my family, and play with my kids, I
want to hack on something. Mostly it's code, but now it's writing,
blogging, tweeting, and curation.I take that extra time I have and I
hack, you can all hack. You have the time, we as 20th century americans
have some of the most free time on the entire planet, we should harness
that time to help us work on awesome projects.

*Step 3: Use a piece of your free time to hack*

# Ira Glass

[Ira Glass](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ira_Glass) is the host of "This
American Life". In each episode they have a theme, and then they have
certain number of acts all related to that theme. That's it. Within
those rules, they make one of the most well-informed, well-thought,
provocative pieces of media today. It never fails to disappoint. Mr.
Glass has spoken, and written outside of the show, and has created meta
narrative about the making of the show. One of my favorite ideas of his
is that no matter how good you are at something, it still takes a shear
act of will to make something great. He believes there is the law of
nature that everything wants to be mediocre. This is the reason so much
of what we see, hear, and watch is mediocre, because it's really hard to
make something awesome, you have to really work hard.

Hacking isn't always going to be awesome, we aren't always going to end
up with a piece that even works, but that is not the point, the point is
that we need work hard, and fast to try and make something great. If you
keep hacking, and you build projects faster, and you fail faster, you
will start to understand what is good, and what isn't. Not just from a
technically stand-point but holistically understanding if what you are
working on can lead towards to innovation.

*Step 4: Iterate, and work: Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger*

## Honorary mention: Time

None of these steps can happen overnight. That is why I love the pyramid
idea, it takes time to move up the pyramid, but at some point in time
you have to head towards it if you want it. It's like watching TV, and
forgetting the remote control in the other room, you might just sit
there for awhile, the channel may not be so bad, but eventually you will
want to control what you watch, and you might be tired, and you have to
talk your self into getting up 3 or 5 times, but once you do it you are
going to be happier.

I started actively reading blogs 4 years ago. It took me a good two
years before I started to want to share what was finding, another year
before I was doing what I would call active curation. Really, trying
hard on a daily basis to find some great stuff, and writing good
headlines for the stuff I found. In the last 6 months too a year, I
decided that I wanted to start writing, I wasn't sure what about, but I
took the time to put some stuff together, with out being paid, and found
that I liked it, and over time opportunities started coming to me, I
thought I might want to write a book, I had some ideas. Finally out of
the blue I had the opportunity to work on a book proposal, while the
first publisher turned me down, I found one eventually, and I am going
to write a book. I didn't, 4 years ago, tell my self that in 4 years you
are going to write a book about HTML5 Apps, what I did was set myself up
to fall into it.

I think that if we focused as a team, and as individuals we could start
to make some noise, and with noise comes opportunity, so you know lets
see what we can do.
