---
author: alex
date: 2011-06-10 17:02:35 -0700
layout: post
slug: more-bits-fixing-the-news-risk-management-campaign-finance-reform-top-ui-designers
status: publish
title: 'More Bits: Fixing the news, Risk Management, Campaign Finance Reform, Top
  UI Designers.'
wordpress_id: '285'
---

*[Eleven Things I'd Do If I Ran a News
Organization](http://mediactive.com/2009/09/12/eleven-things-id-do-if-i-ran-a-news-organization/)*
UPDATED You may have noticed -- you could hardly miss it -- the current
blizzard of one-year anniversary stories about the fall of Lehman
Brothers, an event that helped spark last fall's financial meltdown. The
coverage mainly reminds me that journalists failed to do their jobs
before last fall's crisis emerged, and have continued to fail si ...

*[Risk
Mismanagement](http://motherjones.com/environment/2010/04/climate-desk-felix-salmon-corporations-climate-change)*
Mon Apr. 19, 2010 3:00 AM PDT About a decade ago, Miguel Torres planted
104 hectares of pinot noir grapes in the Spanish Pyrenees, 3,300 feet
above sea level. It's cold up there and not much good for grapes-at
least not these days.

*[The Myth of Campaign Finance Reform >
Publications > National
Affairs](http://nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/print/the-myth-of-campaign-finance-reform)*
FROM ISSUE NUMBER 2 \~ WINTER 2010 GO TO TABLE OF CONTENTS March 24,
2009, may go down as a turning point in the history of the
campaign-finance reform debate in America. On that day, in the course of
oral argument before the Supreme Court in the case of Citizens United v.

*[Hacker News | Ask HN: Who are the top UI designers on the web
today?](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=987363)* "When you're forced
to be simple, you're forced to face the real problem. When you can't
deliver ornament, you have to deliver substance." -- PG
http://www.metalabdesign.com/about-us/ is full of "cake decoration".
Other than that it is nice work. I'm not sure what you're getting at
here.
