---
author: alex
date: 2011-01-11 06:23:25 -0700
layout: post
slug: a-diff-is-better-then-a-comment
status: publish
title: A diff is better then a comment
wordpress_id: '112'
categories:
- code
- guru
- startup
---

I know its a running theme, yahoo not so fun, startup good, but I have
found something new to talk about. Ways in which Yahoo could have gotten
better without loosing people. This is a simple way that I think large
companies can keep their edge. A big difference between working at
yahoo, and a startup has been the code review process. At Yahoo, it went
something like you write code, and it gets reviewed by a peer. I always
hoped I would get some good comments, but it ended up being a compliance
review. The discussion tended towards checking off a list of do nots.
The second we moved into the unknown, or needed a little more advanced
knowledge, we were all out of our depth. I do think most tried to make
it useful, but the best we could do most of the time was something like,
“oooh, I read a blog post about this”, and then go on to give a hazy
recollection of some dudes experiments in the latest version of google
chrome. Reading, and experimenting are a good start, but sometimes you
need and old guy, a neck beard, or a server rustler to just tell you
what the answer is. I am not sure if that is what all startups are like,
but I can tell you having computer elders is helpful. Not only is it
helpful to have people who can just tell you what is good, or bad, but
even better is people who fix your code. I feel sometimes it’s like the
old days, when teachers used a red pen to markup a paper. But, its also
like having an editor. Not only someone who knows more then you, but is
willing to put the work in showing you how your code can be better. It
feels good to know how to get better, sometimes finding that is the
hardest part of moving forwards. Its not okay to have a bunch of red
marks, but the red marks are a bunch of useful clues as to how to get
better. I can remember sitting in code reviews wondering why they
sucked, thinking that this is exactly what they are suppose to be doing.
This is what good coders do. Now I know there is almost nothing we could
be doing better, we need some real experience in the room.
