---
author: alex
date: 2011-01-20 05:42:55 -0700
layout: post
slug: group-chat-and-pizza
status: publish
title: Group chat and Pizza
wordpress_id: '114'
---

Through a fortunate series of events I used
[hipchat](http://www.hipchat.com/) today. After signing up I realized
this was the group chat company that everyone has been talking about,
especially that they do not provide native chat clients. The argument in
summary, because they use Adobe Air to develop a desktop apps. It can’t
do certain native functions. It doesn’t look like other native apps. All
supposedly because it makes it easier on the developers, and that means
they are doing a disservice to their customers. In short, they are doing
something that makes things easy for them, thus not putting the user
first. The whole argument rests on what do users want. We are using
hipchat because the task of hooking up non-technical folks to IRC was
daunting. This service allows one to chat with a group, and share links.
It’s does exactly what IRC would have done for these users. It’s always
difficult to to say what users want, or don’t but to clarify the
dominate opinion put forth on the internets about hipchat I am going to
suggest a thought experiment. Imagine two pizzerias are opening. The
first question they need to answer has to be what kind of pizza do
people want? Here is where the road diverges, I am now going to put two
pizza makers into predefined, diametrically opposed boxes, which are
only useful for this experiment. One pizza maker thinks people want
bread, cheese, and meat, and they make a simple pizza. The other thinks
they want artisan pizza made in wood fire ovens with the best
ingredients. If you look at america, and the large chain pizza
companies, you can begin to tell who will win the popularity contest. I
know that I want that artisan pizza, I want to know that guy, but I also
can’t deny that the other dude is going to make a boat load of money.
Pizza, like the way the first guy is going to make it, is cheap. It will
be ordered by large organizations for lunch, school teachers will order
it for there homeroom end of school parties. No amount of attention to
detail will make his users like, or dislike his product more.
Furthermore, some might want to tell the pizza consumers that the former
pizza is bad, and may be bad for them, but that has nothing to do with
the argument people will buy what they want. The experiment has to apply
to the main argument, yes it’s purposefully vague, and unreal, but it
brings into focus the main point, which is a quality obsessed subset
probably doesn’t know what the world wants. They know about quality, but
maybe not people. In the world of group chat, if most people want the
ability to chat with a group, and see what the group is saying, then
hipchat is perfect. I am not certain what company is the artisan pizza
of group chat, but I am sure they would do very well with a handful of
discriminating developers.
