---
author: alex
date: 2011-03-16 05:53:58 -0700
layout: post
slug: an-answer-to-a-question-i-am-asked-occasionally
status: publish
title: 'An answer to a question I am asked occasionally '
wordpress_id: '126'
tags:
- better
- blogging
- code
- writing
---

Every once in a while I get an email from someone who thinks I know what
I am talking about, and they want to know how I got where I did. I am
flattered that they want my advice, but I fear that I could never be
that helpful. That is usually where I start. I suggest that they should
diversify. They should make it a point to read widely, and ask many
people for advice. Really, I don't think that I have much of anything
that is original to say. Which isn't to say that I am a sham, it's just
that when I tell people what I do to get better they exclaim, "that's
what all the books say". They say that because all the books are right,
they all have the same basic process, what matters is putting in the
work.I usually have the same answer, and it doesn't matter if its about
programming, or blogging its usually the same answer. Truthfully, I
don't have a process. I do have a general understanding of how I get
better, and how I got to this point, but not like a set of rules. The
first step in the process is to love what you are doing. It's okay if
you aren't good, at least in the beginning. What matters is that you
love what you do. Loving what you do isn't important because it's fun.
It's because it's tough. It's tough to get better at something. I have
never understood people that seemingly get better at things they don't
like. That is the real super power in this world. So, I stick to what I
love to do, and that way even when I am not having that fun, I find a
way to work through it. The second step is to work. Work hard, and
often. Also don't just sit down and work, work to get better at working.
Getting better is the working with a deliberate purpose to get better,
not just repeating the same thing over, and over again. Finally, repeat
steps one and two ad infinitum. Seriously, I can't over state this part
enough. Just keep going. Now, there is a third step, but it's not as
important, and I think you are already on your way. Every once in a
while you need to stick your head out of the room where you have been
working, and look to see if there is someplace you can apply your new
found knowledge. Sometimes people come to you, but often you will need
to hustle your own gigs. Don't depend on anyone to come knocking down
your door.
