---
author: alex
date: 2011-03-30 05:48:12 -0700
layout: post
slug: reading-code
status: publish
title: Reading Code
wordpress_id: '128'
tags:
- code
---

I recently spent some time getting to know
[backbone.js](http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/). I wanted to
apply it to a mobile app I have been working on. While the code is
great, I stumbled on an idea while using it. When I fist start using a
framework of any kind, django for example, I almost always use there
getting started tutorial.

You copy, and paste the code from this tutorial, and then poke and prod
it until you get some kind of understand of the code. When I was working
with backbone.js though, I could not find a single in-depth tutorial
that was close to what I wanted. In fact, it was hard to find anything
more then just sample code.

Backbone it’s self is well written, and all of the code is precisely
documented, but only at the atomic level. Each individual function has
been lovingly document, but its hard to find a 90,000 foot view that is
more then: oh, here is a todo list.

To figure out how to do what I wanted, I had to start digging into the
code. I haven’t ever really started using a framework in that manner
before. At the end of a long session working with the code I realized
that i had a better understanding of backbone, quicker, then almost any
framework I have used.

It might just be that as I code more, I am more easily able to
understand code, but I think it might also be how I approached learning
backbone. By letting the code be my guide, and really trying to
understand the intent I was able to gain a meta level understanding of
what the code creators were trying to get across.

PS. Javascript projects can we stop putting .js in the name. Every-time
I type a period in a name I feel dirty.
